they've been hybrids before but Honda
reckons the insight is the most
affordable and usable yet the insight is
a full hybrid with a 1.3 litre petrol
engine backed up by an electric motor
there's an engine stop-start system to
save fuel and cut emissions while the
battery is charged using the energy
created under braking so we've
established the insight to treat the
environment well but the driver and
passengers don't get such a good deal a
CVT automatic transmission and light
steering take the strain out of city
driving for the engine stop start system
and gearbox a jerky at low speed a
Toyota Prius is smoother things don't
get much better on the open road but you
foot down and the engine screams without
a particularly noticeable increase in
speed road noise adds to the racket on
the motorway the insight handles well
enough but the steering feels detached
and the ride is fidgety causing the car
to bob up and down on just about any
type of road or surface the insight is
practical with lots of legroom all-round
and a flat floor that gives plenty of
space in the back
rear headroom isn't particularly
generous however and although the boot
is larger that focuses it's rather
shallow
despite its futuristic styling the
dashboard is reasonably user friendly
the incites seats could do with more
padding though and the steering wheel
needs more adjustment visibility is also
an issue because the strip that
separates the two-part rear screen
blocks your view the insight is a lot
cheaper than its key rival the Toyota
Prius and even the cheapest version is
well equipped running costs are low -
thanks to average economy of more than
60 miles per gallon and low co2
emissions that keep tax bills to a
minimum discounts on the list price are
pretty stingy but we expect the insight
to hold its value well in the long run
you shouldn't have to worry about long
term reliability because Honda's record
is top-notch
there's nothing to suggest that the
insight will go against the grain but
although the interior is solidly built
it's not very appealing with lots of
hard plastic and cheap looking materials
Honda markets the insight is a hybrid
for the masses but although it's
impressively easy on the environment and
your wallet it demands too many
compromises to rival the best-selling
small fan